#Reflecting on my project


**Odds & Ends**


The whole experience of developing Odds and Ends enhanced my understanding of food waste streams and the concept of value around waste.
Starting the project without any expectations helped me to be opened to any possible output. It gave me the opportunity to cooperate with inspiring people that had a similar focus but also different from mine, and by working with them I developed new and unexpected interests.
It identified my strengths in my knowledge and skills, but also my gaps and this was the most positive things because I actually saw some development in them.
I was really surprised by how I managed to deal with the small amount of time we had to actually come out with an output, with the pros and cons of working with a large group (five people, was the first time for me) and also with the positive attitude that guided me throughout almost all the time! What I will do different in the next terms would for sure be the number of people I want to work with, to avoid general chaos, and the practical strategy of putting in action our ideas, to not have to rush it all last minute.
During the Design Dialogues, the feedbacks received from Nuria was very helpful to open new strategists and options for the project.
Also, it was very satisfying to see people interested in what we dedicated our time and efforts to and explain it many times and receiving many questions challenged me but also helped a lot. I realized that each time I was explaining it, the narrative was different because related to the person I was talking to, and this was a very inspiring process which gave different outputs.
I still don’t know what are the consequences of this project, but for now I have to say that during the second term I will abandon Odds and Ends and stop working of the food waste flow. This means that I’ll stop explore this specific field, but this also means that there are so many things that I learnt that I will keep developing in a way and keep apply to my future projects: the fascinating AI world (currently reading a book called “You Look Like a Thing and I Love You” to understand AI better); explore and fantasize about new and bio materials, their potentials and different uses; pairing with Josephine, an amazing designer and classmate that was a great match, I’m very grateful to have worked with her and to keep working with her; engage with communities in a non invasive way.
The next steps will see new ideas and projects coming to light. Exploring new fields. Interacting with new communities. Never designing from guilt. Always cooperate. Be opened to any outcome, positive or negative. My ideas for now involve very different topics and it’s pretty hard to narrow it down. Starting from water streams, islands, boats, water consumptions to the festival world, safe zones, drug assumptions and education.
